Responding to review docs (#381)
AlexsLemonade/OpenScPCA-analysis: docs/contributing-to-analyses/pr-review-and-merge/respond-to-review.md

# Responding to code reviews

After you file your PR, the Data Lab team will assign a reviewer to your pull request.
We aim to begin the process of code review within three business days of you filing the PR.

> You can expect that each PR will have undergo several rounds of code review and response to review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can expect that each PR will undergo several rounds of code review and response to review
```

</figure>

### Inline comments

Your reviewer can also leave inline comments with feedback about specific lines of code.
These comments can also include _suggestions_ for code changes, that you can incorporate into your PR directly via on GitHub.

For example, below you can see three inline comments left on an R script, where the first and third comment are suggestions, as seen in the `Files changed` tab:

<div class="grid" markdown>

<!-- Note that I've used <br> to make the bullets line up with the associated comment in the image -->

- In the first comment, the reviewer suggested that the code author add a new line to load the `readr` library.<br><br><br><br>
- In the second comment, the reviewer did not formally suggest a code change, but left a comment recommending to use `file.path()`.
(Learn more about [structuring your scripts](../analysis-modules/script-structure.md)!)<br><br>
- In the third comment, the reviewer suggested that the code author remove a line that loads the `dplyr` library.

<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-inline.png){width="600"}
</figure>

> </div>

Author: Do you think these examples would actually complete that other docs page? Or would we need more?

> </div>

Author: Also, does this mean you see the instructions on dealing with suggestions as something for the other doc too?

> </div>

Reviewer: Sorry I didn't see this earlier, but yes I would either move all the examples to a different file or keep in this file and not have a separate examples file. 
If you choose to move to a different file then I think what you have is sufficient. 

Regardless, you should keep the section on dealing with suggestions in this doc.

- You can directly commit a _single_ suggestion by clicking `Commit suggestion` button, and then clicking `Commit changes` in the dropdown box:
<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-commit-1-file.png){width="600"}
</figure>

- Alternatively, if there are multiple suggestions to accept, you can click the `Add suggestion to batch` button on each one.
_The `Add suggestion to batch` option is only available via the `Files changed` tab!_
    - Now, both suggestions are `Pending in batch` to be committed as a group:
<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-pending-batch.png){width="600"}
</figure>

You can commit the batched suggestions at once with the `Commit suggestions` button that will appear at the top of the `Files changed` tab:

<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-commitbatch.png){width="600"}
</figure>

!!! warning
    After committing suggestions, be sure to _pull your changes locally_ before making more code changes in response to review!
    This will help you avoid [merge conflicts](../creating-pull-requests/resolve-merge-conflicts.md).

> Read this GitHub documentation for more about [applying suggested changes while responding to review](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request).

Author: I added this in https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenScPCA-analysis/pull/381/commits/f0bd029ea9d3b28406a7cf76fa8072b2d63b44fd and https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenScPCA-analysis/pull/381/commits/b1b4e70ea79ac9e8837601cec4da7b1d30ec1f8c

# Responding to code reviews

> Code review is essentially a conversation between you and your reviewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code review is essentially a conversation between you and your reviewer about your proposed changes. 
This document includes some example review comments and guidance on how to respond to review comments and suggestions. 
```
I would just add a little intro into what they can expect in this document.

    - You can also find any [resolved comments](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request#resolving-conversations) here, if you need to refer to them again.
- **`Commits`**
    - This tab shows a list of all commits added to the branch that is being reviewed.
    Your reviewer may use this page to explore changes in individual commits.

<!-- comment to force two grid columns -->

- **`Checks`**
    - This tab shows results from certain types of code checks that have been automatically set up by the Data Lab; you can ignore this tab.
- **`Files changed`**
    - This tab shows a line-by-line overview of content you have added and removed in your branch.
    Changes shown here should reflect the difference between files in your branch and the base branch your PR is targeting.
This should be the `main` branch of the `AlexsLemonade/OpenScPCA-analysis` repository.
    - Referring to this tab is a great way to quickly see all your changes, as well as respond to [reviewer suggestions or comments](#inline-comments).

</div>

## Responding to review comments

> When making code changes in response to review, you need to make sure your local repository is staying in-sync with any changes made directly on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases a reviewer will request you make changes without providing in-line suggestions. 
When this happens, you will need to make the code changes locally. 
If you committed suggestions directly on GitHub before working on additional changes, be sure to sync your local branch with changes made on GitHub before changing any local code. 
```
Just expanding on when they would actually need this. 
Also I don't think this section makes any sense here and I would put this after the `Types of reviewer comments`.

## Re-requesting review

Once you feel that you have addressed your reviewer's comments, you can [re-request review by clicking the cycle icon next to their handle on the right side of the PR page](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request#re-requesting-a-review).

<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-x.png){width="400"}
</figure>

You can also post a comment in your PR summarizing your response to review, which will help your reviewer navigate your code changes:

- Which review comments did you address?
    - Is there more information you can tell your reviewer that will help them understand your code changes?
- Which review comments, if any, did you not address?
    - Was it because the review comment itself was confusing, or because you weren't sure how to address it?
    Communicating this with your reviewer will help you both out!

## Types of reviewer comments

When reviewing your pull request, there are several types of comments your reviewer may leave for you to respond to.

> <!-- Please refer to [our documentation on example reviews](STUB_LINK example reviews). -->

Reviewer: I think we can remove this and just have examples here. I would move this whole section to be before `Responding to review comments`.

</figure>

### Inline comments

Your reviewer can also leave inline comments with feedback about specific lines of code:

<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-inline.png){width="600"}
</figure>

You can directly reply to these review comments on GitHub.
For example, you might ask your reviewer to clarify a particular comment, or ask for more guidance about how to implement the review.
Or, you might just want to leave your reviewer a helpful note of some kind!

The way to responding to an existing comment differs depending on which PR tab you are leaving the comment from:

- If you are in the **`Files changed`** tab, use the button `Add single comment` to reply (_do not use `Start a review`_):
    <figure markdown="span">
        ![Reply to a review comment from the `Files changed` tab.](../../img/respond-to-review-comment-filed-changed.png){width="600"}
    </figure>

- If you are in the **`Conversation`** tab, use the button `Comment`.
    <figure markdown="span">
        ![Reply to a review comment from the `Conversation` tab.](../../img/respond-to-review-comment-conversation.png){width="600"}
    </figure>

> (Learn more about [structuring your scripts](../analysis-modules/script-structure.md)!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Suggestion comments

> These comments can also include _suggestions_ for code changes, that you can incorporate into your PR directly via on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reviewer comments can also include _suggestions_ for code changes, that you can incorporate into your PR directly on GitHub.
```

> For example, below you are two suggestions review comments on an R script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, below are two suggestions left as comments on an R script:
```

### Comments with overall feedback

In most circumstances, your reviewer will leave an overall high-level comment explaining their overall impressions from reviewing the code and synthesizing the types of changes they are requesting you make.

### File-level comments

Your reviewer can leave file-specific comments that provide high-level feedback about the overall contents of a given file.

For example, this file-level review comment requests that the code author comment and document a script:

<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-02.png){width="600"}
</figure>

### In-line comments

Your reviewer can also leave in-line comments with feedback about specific lines of code:

<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-03.png){width="600"}
</figure>

You can directly reply to these review comments on GitHub.
For example, you might ask your reviewer to clarify a particular comment, or ask for more guidance about how to implement the review.
Or, you might just want to leave your reviewer a helpful note of some kind!

> The way to responding to an existing comment differs depending on which PR tab you are leaving the comment from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way to respond to an existing comment differs depending on which PR tab you are leaving the comment from:
```

- If you are in the **`Files changed`** tab, use the button `Add single comment` to reply (_do not use `Start a review`_):
    <figure markdown="span">
        ![Reply to a review comment from the `Files changed` tab.](../../img/respond-to-review-04.png){width="600"}
    </figure>

- If you are in the **`Conversation`** tab, use the button `Comment`.
    <figure markdown="span">
        ![Reply to a review comment from the `Conversation` tab.](../../img/respond-to-review-05.png){width="600"}
    </figure>

### Suggestion comments

Reviewer comments can also include _suggestions_ for code changes, that you can incorporate into your PR directly on GitHub.

For example, below are two suggestions left as comments on an R script:

- In the first comment, the reviewer suggested that the code author add a new line to load the `readr` library.
- In the second comment, the reviewer suggested that the code author remove a line that loads the `dplyr` library.

<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-06.png){width="600"}
</figure>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Responding to review comments 

### Responding to suggestion comments 
```
Everything before this is really examples, and here you are talking about how to actually incorporate suggestions and respond. So I think you need to move up the header.

- You can directly commit a _single_ suggestion by clicking `Commit suggestion` button, and then clicking `Commit changes` in the dropdown box:
<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-07.png){width="600"}
</figure>

- Alternatively, if there are multiple suggestions to accept, you can click the `Add suggestion to batch` button on each one.
_The `Add suggestion to batch` option is only available via the `Files changed` tab!_
    - Now, both suggestions are `Pending in batch` to be committed as a group:
<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-08.png){width="600"}
</figure>

You can commit the batched suggestions at once with the `Commit suggestions` button that will appear at the top of the `Files changed` tab:

<figure markdown="span">
    ![Re-request review.](../../img/respond-to-review-09.png){width="600"}
</figure>

Read this GitHub documentation for more about [applying suggested changes while responding to review](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request#applying-suggested-changes).

> ## Responding to review comments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Making additional code changes in response to comments
```
What do we think of this for this section? This is really all about making changes in response to additional comments that are not just direct suggestions.

> In some cases a reviewer will request you make changes without providing in-line suggestions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases a reviewer will request you make changes to the code without providing in-line suggestions.
```
